_INDEX.md, before:

---
Alias: ["Index","OFA","ofa"]
---

# Obsi-Forge-apedia
The Obsi-Forge-Apedia (OFA) is an Obsidian markdown version of the reference material from the _Ironsworn: Starforged_ Table Top Role Playing Game. The purpose of this work is to provide the community the ability to reference _Starforged_ source material in Obsidian while playing through the game.

Click on the title of each section below to explore this fabulous game.

## Starforged
> [!todo] [[_GB_Index|Gameplay Rules]] [Pages 17-77]
> Start here to learn **The Basics** of playing Ironsworn in the _Starforged_ setting. Also a full table of contents for all guidelines from chapters 3 and 4.

> [!progress] [[_Campaign Index|Campaign Creation]] [Pages 77-139]
> Campaign Creation provides checklists to begin playing _Starforged_, either solo or with a group.  These include Campaign **Truths**, Creating a **Character**, Creating Starting **Sector**, and Creating the **Inciting Incident** to launch your adventures. 

> [!success] [[_Moves Index|Gameplay In Depth]] [Pages 139-253]
> Contains the **Moves** that are used to weave a narrative between the character's story and apply mechanics of the game. More **In Depth** guidelines are also located here.

> [!error] [[_Denizen Index|Denizens]] [Pages 253-287]
> Create **Foes and NPCs** to populate your adventures within the Forge.

> [!oracle] **[[_OCL_Index|Oracles Reference]]** [Pages 291-386] | **[[_Rollers_Index|Oracle Roll Sheets]]**
> - Oracles are tables players can choose or roll from the drive narrative prompts on many aspects of the story within the game.  The full details on how and when to use these tables is explained here.
> - Utilize the **[[_Rollers_Index|Oracle Roll Sheets]]** to generate results from Obsidian Starforged play through.

> [!abstract] [[_Assets Index|Assets]] [Asset  Cards PDF]
> Assets are knowledge, training, and materials that can be used to invoke moves with unique benefits.  There are narrative and mechanical triggers that must be met to use an Asset to invoke upon the move.

> [!example] **[[Community-Content|Community Content]]**
> Additional content created by the community that can be incorporated into or replace sections of the core _Starforged_ rule book. This ranges from new Assets and Oracles, simple thematic set pieces, to extended rulesets that dramatically alter the flow of the game.

## [[_Sundered Isles|Sundered Isles]]

Commit message:

Version 0.4.1.2
Starforged re-work to align more closely with source content

_INDEX.md, after:

---
Alias: ["Index","OFA","ofa"]
---

# Obsi-Forge-apedia
The Obsi-Forge-Apedia (OFA) is an Obsidian markdown version of the reference material from the _Ironsworn: Starforged_ Table Top Role Playing Game. The purpose of this work is to provide the community the ability to reference _Starforged_ source material in Obsidian while playing through the game.

Click on the title of each section below to explore this fabulous game.

# Official Content
## [[_Starforged|Starforged]]
![[Ironsworn_Starforged_Cover.jpeg|320]]
_Space faring Sci-Fi perilous adventures among the stars_

## [[_Sundered Isles|Sundered Isles]]
![[Ironsworn_SunderedIsles_Cover.jpeg|320]]
_Seafaring upon wood and steel vessels overcoming the cursed fantasy exploits_

# [[Community-Content|Community Content]]
Additional content created by the community that can be incorporated into or replace sections of the core _Starforged_ rule book. This ranges from new Assets and Oracles, simple thematic set pieces, to extended rulesets that dramatically alter the flow of the game.

# Campaigns
Create campaign's here

# Resources
## [[_Rollers_Index|Oracle Roll Sheets]]
Utilize the to generate results from Obsidian Starforged play through.

## Templates
View and modify templates here for use in playing the game.
