Sundered Ilses/_Sundered Isles.md, before:

---
## Source
SourceMaterial: "Ironsworn: Sundered Isles"
SourceAuthor: "Shawn Tompkin"
SourceLink: 

## Page
aliases: 
  - "Sundered Isles Index"
PageType: Index
PageCategory: Index
PageOrder: 0
---
# [[_INDEX|Index]]: Sundered Isles
## CONTENTS
> **==Section 1 / page 4==**
> ### [[_SI_CH1_Contents|Chapter 1 - Adventures Among the Isles]]<br>Whole Chapter [[1 - Adevntures Among the Isles]]
> This section includes setting info and gameplay options. Before starting play, explore this content as you like. Then, refer here when you have questions or want more detail.

> **==Section 2 / page 64==**
> ### [[_SI_CH2_Contents|Chapter 2 - Getting Underway]]<br>Whole Chapter [[2 - Getting Underway]]
> Start here when you’re ready to play. By working through these exercises, you forge a world, create a character, and set your campaign in motion.

> **==Section 3 / page 110==**
> ### [[_SI_Ch3_Contents|Chapter 3 - Oracles]]<br>Whole Chapter [[3 - Oracles]]
> Sundered Isles moves include minor changes to align with the nautical setting. There’s no need to read this section beforehand; it is referenced during play.

> **==Section 4 / page 234==**
> ### [[_SI_CH4_Contents|Chapter 4 - Moves Reference]]<br>Whole Chapter [[4 - Moves]]
> 
> Here you will find a vast array of oracle tables to reveal the mysteries of the Sundered Isles. Use them to answer questions and uncover new aspects of the world.

## A WORLD OF WOODEN SHIPS AND IRON SOULS
_Sundered Isles_ is an expansion for the _Ironsworn: Starforged_ tabletop roleplaying game. It offers guidelines, options, and tools for exploring a world of fantasy seafaring adventure using the Starforged system.

The Sundered Isles is a realm of wind and tide, mariners and marauders, rebels and empires, myths and magic. In pursuit of your sworn vows, you will chart a path through turbulent waters, venture across perilous island landscapes, delve into forsaken ruins and tide-swept caves, and visit far-flung communities. Over time, you will grow to command great ships and loyal crews, standing fast against dreadful and tyrannical forces that threaten to sweep like a maelstrom across these vast seas.

This is also a world of your own envisioning. At the start of your campaign, you decide the history of the Isles, the state of technology, the nature of supernatural forces, the dominance of imperial threats, and more. Your version of the isles might mirror our real-world age of sail, or a fantastic realm of wondrous machines, powerful magic, titanic beasts, and dreadful curses. You might even decide to set your sights beyond the sea, sailing among skybound isles or navigating the cosmic tides.

Once your world is forged, set your story in motion with a mission or imminent danger—your starting quest among the Sundered Isles. Then, play to see what happens.

### Content Note
_Sundered Isles_ includes themes of action-oriented violence, colonialism, warfare, natural disasters, resource scarcity, and supernatural horror. In addition, the random and abstract nature of oracle tables may prompt interpretations involving sensitive subjects that aren’t explicitly included in the game. Use of the included session moves ==(page 237)== or your preferred safety tool is recommended.

*Page 2 - Introduction*

## WHAT YOU NEED

### BOOKS
Sundered Isles is used alongside the Starforged rulebook, and assumes familiarity with the rules and materials in that book. This Digital Edition includes the content of both Sundered Isles Guidebooks, slightly reorganized for ease-of-use.

### CHARACTER ASSET CARDS
Sundered Isles offers an array of new character assets. You combine these asset cards with selected Starforged assets to create a curated Sundered Isles deck. Print-and-play asset cards for Sundered Isles and Starforged are available at ironswornrpg.com, or you can purchase preprinted decks. 

### DICE
You need your standard Starforged dice set—a pair of D10s for your challenge dice, a D6 as your action die, and (optionally) a pair of percentile D10s as your oracle dice. When rolling on oracle tables, an extra D10 of a special color serves as the cursed die ==(page 114).== Also, some assets ask you to roll an additional action or challenge die, so it’s handy to have extras in your kit.

### PLAYKIT
The Sundered Isles Playkit includes character sheets, worksheets, and reference sheets. Download it at ironswornrpg.com.

*Page 3 - Introduction*

## Tags

| Pedia Index | Tags | Next Chapter |
| :--- | :---: | ---: |
| **[[_INDEX\|OFA Index]]** | #SunderedIsles| **[[_SI_CH1_Contents\|Chapter 1 - Adventures Among the Isles]]** |


<font size=-2>Copyright ©2024 Shawn Tomkin. The text of this work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. For license details, visit ironswornrpg.com. Updated June 2024 MUH051V200-PDF</font>

Commit message:

Version 0.4.1.2
Starforged re-work to align more closely with source content

Sundered Ilses/_Sundered Isles.md, after:

---
## Source
SourceMaterial: "Ironsworn: Sundered Isles"
SourceAuthor: "Shawn Tompkin"
SourceLink: 

## Page
aliases: 
  - "Sundered Isles Index"
PageType: Index
PageCategory: Index
PageOrder: 0
---
# [[_INDEX|OFA]]: Sundered Isles
## CONTENTS
> **==Section 1 / page 4==**
> ### [[_SI_CH1_Contents|Chapter 1 - Adventures Among the Isles]]<br>Whole Chapter [[1 - Adevntures Among the Isles]]
> This section includes setting info and gameplay options. Before starting play, explore this content as you like. Then, refer here when you have questions or want more detail.

> **==Section 2 / page 64==**
> ### [[_SI_CH2_Contents|Chapter 2 - Getting Underway]]<br>Whole Chapter [[2 - Getting Underway]]
> Start here when you’re ready to play. By working through these exercises, you forge a world, create a character, and set your campaign in motion.

> **==Section 3 / page 110==**
> ### [[_SI_Ch3_Contents|Chapter 3 - Oracles]]<br>Whole Chapter [[3 - Oracles]]
> Sundered Isles moves include minor changes to align with the nautical setting. There’s no need to read this section beforehand; it is referenced during play.

> **==Section 4 / page 234==**
> ### [[_SI_CH4_Contents|Chapter 4 - Moves Reference]]<br>Whole Chapter [[4 - Moves]]
> 
> Here you will find a vast array of oracle tables to reveal the mysteries of the Sundered Isles. Use them to answer questions and uncover new aspects of the world.

> **==Asset Cards / Assets PDF==**
> ### [[_Assets Index|Assets]]
> 
> View the assets from Sundered Isles along with those from other rule systems here.


## A WORLD OF WOODEN SHIPS AND IRON SOULS
_Sundered Isles_ is an expansion for the _Ironsworn: Starforged_ tabletop roleplaying game. It offers guidelines, options, and tools for exploring a world of fantasy seafaring adventure using the Starforged system.

The Sundered Isles is a realm of wind and tide, mariners and marauders, rebels and empires, myths and magic. In pursuit of your sworn vows, you will chart a path through turbulent waters, venture across perilous island landscapes, delve into forsaken ruins and tide-swept caves, and visit far-flung communities. Over time, you will grow to command great ships and loyal crews, standing fast against dreadful and tyrannical forces that threaten to sweep like a maelstrom across these vast seas.

This is also a world of your own envisioning. At the start of your campaign, you decide the history of the Isles, the state of technology, the nature of supernatural forces, the dominance of imperial threats, and more. Your version of the isles might mirror our real-world age of sail, or a fantastic realm of wondrous machines, powerful magic, titanic beasts, and dreadful curses. You might even decide to set your sights beyond the sea, sailing among skybound isles or navigating the cosmic tides.

Once your world is forged, set your story in motion with a mission or imminent danger—your starting quest among the Sundered Isles. Then, play to see what happens.

### Content Note
_Sundered Isles_ includes themes of action-oriented violence, colonialism, warfare, natural disasters, resource scarcity, and supernatural horror. In addition, the random and abstract nature of oracle tables may prompt interpretations involving sensitive subjects that aren’t explicitly included in the game. Use of the included [[_SI_CH4_Session Moves|session moves]] (page 237) or your preferred safety tool is recommended.

*2 INTRODUCTION*

## WHAT YOU NEED

### BOOKS
Sundered Isles is used alongside the Starforged rulebook, and assumes familiarity with the rules and materials in that book. This Digital Edition includes the content of both Sundered Isles Guidebooks, slightly reorganized for ease-of-use.

### CHARACTER ASSET CARDS
Sundered Isles offers an array of new character assets. You combine these asset cards with selected Starforged assets to create a curated Sundered Isles deck. Print-and-play asset cards for Sundered Isles and Starforged are available at ironswornrpg.com, or you can purchase preprinted decks. 

### DICE
You need your standard Starforged dice set—a pair of D10s for your challenge dice, a D6 as your action die, and (optionally) a pair of percentile D10s as your oracle dice. When rolling on oracle tables, an extra D10 of a special color serves as [[SI_CH3_The Cursed Die|The Cursed Die]] (page 114). Also, some assets ask you to roll an additional action or challenge die, so it’s handy to have extras in your kit.

### PLAYKIT
The Sundered Isles Playkit includes character sheets, worksheets, and reference sheets. Download it at ironswornrpg.com.

*3 INTRODUCTION*

## Tags

| Pedia Index | Tags | Next Chapter |
| :--- | :---: | ---: |
| **[[_INDEX\|OFA Index]]** | #SunderedIsles| **[[_SI_CH1_Contents\|Chapter 1 - Adventures Among the Isles]]** |


<font size=-2>Copyright ©2024 Shawn Tomkin. The text of this work is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license. For license details, visit ironswornrpg.com. Updated June 2024 MUH051V200-PDF</font>
