Starforged/Chapter5 - Oracles/Core/_SF_CH5_Core.md, before:

---
## Source
SourceMaterial: "Ironsworn: Starforged"
SourceAuthor: "Shawn Tompkin"
SourceLink: 

## Page 
aliases:
  - "Core (SF Oracles)"
PageType: Oracles
PageCategory: CoreIndex
PageOrder: 0
---
# [[_Starforged|Starforged]] - [[_SF_CH5_Index|Oracle]]: Core
The following pages include a set of four ==Core Oracles== that are central to _Starforged_. They are: ==Action==, ==Theme==, ==Descriptor==, and ==Focus==. Each includes 100 single-word results as abstract prompts.

You can roll on these tables individually or combine them with results from other oracles. In most cases, you’ll roll on a set of two oracles, Action and Theme or Descriptor and Focus, to form a simple sentence out of a word pair. Then, interpret the result based on the context of the question and your current situation. If a result doesn’t fit, check adjacent rows or roll again.

The Core Oracles provide creative prompts suitable for many situations. In fact, for a lightweight approach, it’s possible to ignore the other oracles and focus on answering questions using only the [[SF_CH3_Ask the Oracle|Ask the Oracle (move)]] and these four tables.

## [[SF_CH5_Core_Action-Theme|Action/Theme Oracle]]
Use these oracle tables to reveal details about a goal, situation, or event. They provide a word or phrase that can be taken literally or interpreted as an abstraction.

Action and Theme can answer questions such as:
- “What does this character want?”
- “What is this faction’s mission?”
- “What caused the downfall of this settlement?”
- “What is this device’s purpose?” 

## [[SF_CH5_Core_Descriptor-Focus|Descriptor/Focus Oracle]]
Use these oracles to generate the details of a location, discovery, or encounter. The Descriptor oracle is particularly handy for quick generation of a location. For example, use it to describe the basic nature of a planet instead of rolling on the detailed planet oracles.

Descriptor and Focus can answer questions such as:
- “What is this ship’s cargo?”
- “What is the nature of this planet?”
- “What is inside this station?”
- “What hazard do I encounter?”

## Tags
| Previous Page | Tags | Next Section | 
| :--- | :---: | ---: |
| **[[SF_CH5_Using Oracles\|Using Oracles (SF)]]** | #Starforged/Oracles/Core | **[[_SF_CH5_Space-Encounters\|Space Encounter Oracles (SF)]]** |

<font size=-2>This work is based on Ironsworn: Starforged (found at [www.ironswornrpg.com](http://www.ironswornrpg.com)), created by Shawn Tomkin, and licensed for our use under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license  (creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).</font>

Commit message:

Version 0.4.1.3
Proof read of Starforged changes, brought Oracle index pages inline with Sundered Isles

Starforged/Chapter5 - Oracles/Core/_SF_CH5_Core.md, after:

---
## Source
SourceMaterial: "Ironsworn: Starforged"
SourceAuthor: "Shawn Tompkin"
SourceLink: 

## Page 
aliases:
  - "Core (SF Oracles)"
PageType: Oracles
PageCategory: CoreIndex
PageOrder: 0
---
# [[_Starforged|Starforged]] - [[_SF_CH5_Index|Oracle]]: Core
The following pages include a set of four ==Core Oracles== that are central to _Starforged_. They are: ==Action==, ==Theme==, ==Descriptor==, and ==Focus==. Each includes 100 single-word results as abstract prompts.

You can roll on these tables individually or combine them with results from other oracles. In most cases, you’ll roll on a set of two oracles, Action and Theme or Descriptor and Focus, to form a simple sentence out of a word pair. Then, interpret the result based on the context of the question and your current situation. If a result doesn’t fit, check adjacent rows or roll again.

The Core Oracles provide creative prompts suitable for many situations. In fact, for a lightweight approach, it’s possible to ignore the other oracles and focus on answering questions using only the [[SF_CH3_Ask the Oracle|Ask the Oracle (move)]] and these four tables.

> ## Contents
> ### [[SF_CH5_Core_Action-Theme|Action/Theme Oracle]]
> - Action
> - Theme
>   
> Use these oracle tables to reveal details about a goal, situation, or event. They provide a word or phrase that can be taken literally or interpreted as an abstraction. Action and Theme can answer questions such as:
> - “What does this character want?”
> - “What is this faction’s mission?”
> - “What caused the downfall of this settlement?”
> - “What is this device’s purpose?” 
>   
>### [[SF_CH5_Core_Descriptor-Focus|Descriptor/Focus Oracle]]
> - Descriptor
> - Focus
>   
>   Use these oracles to generate the details of a location, discovery, or encounter. The Descriptor oracle is particularly handy for quick generation of a location. For example, use it to describe the basic nature of a planet instead of rolling on the detailed planet oracles. Descriptor and Focus can answer questions such as:
>   - “What is this ship’s cargo?”
>   - “What is the nature of this planet?”
>   - “What is inside this station?”
>   - “What hazard do I encounter?”

## All Core Oracles
_Below are all Planet oracles across all source material._
```dataview
TABLE without ID
	link(file.link, OracleFocus) As "Oracle Focus",
	SourceMaterial As "Source Material",
	OracleDescriptor As "Description"
WHERE contains(PageType, "Oracle") & contains(PageCategory, "Core") & !contains(PageCategory, "Index") & !contains(file.path, "Template")
SORT SourceMaterial, asc AND PageOrder, asc
```

## Tags
| Previous Page | Tags | Next Section | 
| :--- | :---: | ---: |
| **[[SF_CH5_Using Oracles\|Using Oracles (SF)]]** | #Starforged/Oracles/Core | **[[_SF_CH5_Space-Encounters\|Space Encounter Oracles (SF)]]** |

<font size=-2>This work is based on Ironsworn: Starforged (found at [www.ironswornrpg.com](http://www.ironswornrpg.com)), created by Shawn Tomkin, and licensed for our use under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license  (creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).</font>
