GameplayRules/CampaignCreation/Truths/TR_Lifeforms.md, before:

---
Name: "Lifeforms (truths)"
Alias: "Lifeforms (truths)"
PageType: Campaign
PageCategory: Truth
CategoryOrder: 12
---
#  [[_Truths Index|Truths]]: Lifeforms
Choose or envision how life in the Forge is portrayed in your travels exploring its many mysteries...

# Roll Results
| 1d100 | Result |
|:---:|:--- |
| 1-33 | [[TR_Lifeforms#Adaptable Abundance\|Adaptable Abundance]] |
| 34-67 | [[TR_Lifeforms#Fierce Forgespawn\|Fierce Forgespawn]] |
| 68-100 | [[TR_Lifeforms#Enigmatic Essentia\|Enigmatic Essentia]] |

## Adaptable Abundance
**This is a perilous and often inhospitable galaxy, but life finds a way.** 
 
Life in the Forge is diverse. Planets are often home to a vast array of creatures, and our starships cruise with spaceborne lifeforms riding their wake. Even animals from our homeworld—carried aboard the Exodus ships—have adapted to live with us in the Forge.

## Fierce Forgespawn
**Many sites and planets are infested by dreadful forgespawn. These aberrant creatures threaten to overrun other life in the galaxy.** 
 
The forgespawn are hostile creatures born of the chaotic energies of this galaxy. Hundreds of abandoned or devastated outposts and derelict ships stand as testament to their dreadful power and cunning.

## Enigmatic Essentia
**Life in the Forge was seeded and engineered by the Essentia, ancient entities who enact their inscrutable will in this galaxy.** 
 
The Essentia are the architects of life within the Forge. These omniscient beings are rarely encountered, and have powers and purpose beyond our comprehension. Some worship them. Others resist or rebel against them. But trying to defy the will of the Essentia is like standing at the shore of an ocean to thwart the tide. They are inevitable.

## Quest Starters
![[CRG_Quest Starters#Truth: Lifeforms|Quest Starters]]

## ![[character.svg|20]] Character Prompt
- If you have an expertise in lifeforms and planetary environments, you might be a [[AST_Naturalist|Naturalist (asset)]].
- If you are accompanied on your adventures by a native creature, they might be a companion such as a...
	- [[AST_Banshee|Banshee (asset)]]
	- [[AST_Glowcat|Glowcat (asset)]]
	- [[AST_Voidglider|Voidglider (asset)]]
	- [[AST_Rockhorn|Rockhorn (asset)]]
	- [[AST_Sprite|Sprite (asset)]]
	- [[AST_Symbiote|Symbiote (asset)]]

## Next Truth: [[TR_Precursors|Precursors]]

## Tags
#Pedia/Campaign/Truths

<font size=-2>This work is based on Ironsworn: Starforged (found at [www.ironswornrpg.com](http://www.ironswornrpg.com)), created by Shawn Tomkin, and licensed for our use under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license  (creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).</font>

Commit message:

version .4 initial commit
Commit of a large bulk of content update to the entire OFA project. See change log for details

GameplayRules/CampaignCreation/Truths/TR_Lifeforms.md, after:

---
## Source
SourceMaterial: "Ironsworn: Starforged"
SourceAuthor: "Shawn Tompkin"
SourceLink: 

## Page
aliases:
  - "Lifeforms (truths)"
PageType: Campaign
PageCategory: "Truth: Lifeforms"
PageOrder: 12
---
#  [[_Truths Index|Truths]]: Lifeforms
Choose or envision how life in the Forge is portrayed in your travels exploring its many mysteries...

| 1d100 | Result |
|:---:|:--- |
| 1-33 | [[TR_Lifeforms#Adaptable Abundance\|Adaptable Abundance]] |
| 34-67 | [[TR_Lifeforms#Fierce Forgespawn\|Fierce Forgespawn]] |
| 68-100 | [[TR_Lifeforms#Enigmatic Essentia\|Enigmatic Essentia]] |
^table-choose-truths

## Adaptable Abundance
**This is a perilous and often inhospitable galaxy, but life finds a way.** ^truth-1-summary
 
Life in the Forge is diverse. Planets are often home to a vast array of creatures, and our starships cruise with spaceborne lifeforms riding their wake. Even animals from our homeworld—carried aboard the Exodus ships—have adapted to live with us in the Forge. ^truth-1-body

> _Quest Starter_
> On a scorching, barren planet wracked by massive storms, miners delve beneath the sands to gather valuable ore. But dangerous lifeforms live in the cool places beneath the surface, and several encounters have taken a deadly toll on the miners. Work is at a standstill. How are you involved? ^queststarter-1

## Fierce Forgespawn
**Many sites and planets are infested by dreadful forgespawn. These aberrant creatures threaten to overrun other life in the galaxy.** ^truth-2-summary
 
The forgespawn are hostile creatures born of the chaotic energies of this galaxy. Hundreds of abandoned or devastated outposts and derelict ships stand as testament to their dreadful power and cunning. ^truth-2-body

> _Quest Starter_
> A faction is said to be experimenting with forgespawn DNA to create a new biological superweapon. Where are these dangerous tests being conducted? ^queststarter-2

## Enigmatic Essentia
**Life in the Forge was seeded and engineered by the Essentia, ancient entities who enact their inscrutable will in this galaxy.** ^truth-3-summary
 
The Essentia are the architects of life within the Forge. These omniscient beings are rarely encountered, and have powers and purpose beyond our comprehension. Some worship them. Others resist or rebel against them. But trying to defy the will of the Essentia is like standing at the shore of an ocean to thwart the tide. They are inevitable. ^truth-3-body

> _Quest Starter_
> An eccentric xenologist believes the genomes of life within the Forge don’t just show commonalities—they are in fact a coded message from the Essentia. But there are still significant gaps, and the truth may only be revealed with additional samples. What is your stake in this project? ^queststarter-3

## ![[character.svg|20]] Character Prompt
- If you have an expertise in lifeforms and planetary environments, you might be a [[AST_Naturalist|NATURALIST]].
- If you are accompanied on your adventures by a native creature, they might be a companion such as a...
	- [[AST_Banshee|BANSHEE]] - [[AST_Glowcat|GLOWCAT]] - [[AST_Voidglider|VOIDGLIDER]] - [[AST_Rockhorn|ROCKHORN]] - [[AST_Sprite|SPRITE]] - [[AST_Symbiote|SYMBIOTE]]

## Tags
| Previous Page | Tags | Next Page |
|:--- |:---:| ---:|
| **[[TR_War\|War (truths)]]** | #Pedia/Campaign/Truths | **[[TR_Precursors\|Precursors (truths)]]** |

<font size=-2>This work is based on Ironsworn: Starforged (found at [www.ironswornrpg.com](http://www.ironswornrpg.com)), created by Shawn Tomkin, and licensed for our use under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license  (creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).</font>
