Moves/Fate/_Fate Moves.md, before:

---
Alias: "Fate Moves"
PageType: MoveIndex
PageCategory: Fate
---

# [[_Moves Index|Moves]] Summary: Fate
```dataview
TABLE without ID
	link(file.link, alias) As "Move Name",
	InlineCmd As "Inline Command",
	RollType As "Roll Type"
WHERE contains(PageType, "Move") & contains(PageCategory, "Fate") & !contains(PageType, "Index")
SORT file.name asc
```


In solo and co-op play, the fate moves mediate the result of other moves or serve as inspirational prompts for your story. When you face the uncertain outcome of a move, want to know what happens next, or have a question about people, places, and events, these moves help reveal the answer.

The fate moves combine your storytelling instincts with a dash of unpredictability to help resolve questions and situations. This includes three main techniques: 
- Instinct: If an answer to a question or the result of a situation is obvious, interesting, and dramatic, make it happen. 
- Randomness: Roll on random tables to answer a specific question or to generate the details of a story element such as a person, creature, or location. 
- Inspiration: Use abstract creative prompts to help guide your story. Creative interpretation will lead you naturally from an abstract concept to a relevant answer. 

In guided mode, the guide represents the whims of fate. They can reference the fate moves and oracles as they like, but can also decide the outcome or direct questions back to the players.

#Pedia/Moves/Fate

<font size=-2>This work is based on Ironsworn: Starforged (found at [www.ironswornrpg.com](http://www.ironswornrpg.com)), created by Shawn Tomkin, and licensed for our use under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license  (creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).</font>

Commit message:

version .4 initial commit
Commit of a large bulk of content update to the entire OFA project. See change log for details

Moves/Fate/_Fate Moves.md, after:

---
## Source
SourceMaterial: "Ironsworn: Starforged"
SourceAuthor: "Shawn Tompkin"
SourceLink: 

## Page
aliases:
  - "Fate Moves"
PageType: MoveIndex
PageCategory: Fate
PageOrder: 0
---

# [[_Moves Index|Moves]] Summary: Fate
In solo and co-op play, the ==fate moves== mediate the result of other moves or serve as inspirational prompts for your story. When you face the uncertain outcome of a move, want to know what happens next, or have a question about people, places, and events, these moves help reveal the answer.

>**[[MV_Ask the Oracle|Ask the Oracle]]**
> When you seek to resolve questions, reveal details, discover locations, determine how other characters respond, or trigger encounters or events…

>**[[MV_Pay the Price|Pay the Price]]**
> When you suffer the outcome of an action…

The fate moves combine your storytelling instincts with a dash of unpredictability to help resolve questions and situations. This includes three main techniques: 
- Instinct: If an answer to a question or the result of a situation is obvious, interesting, and dramatic, make it happen. 
- Randomness: Roll on random tables to answer a specific question or to generate the details of a story element such as a person, creature, or location. 
- Inspiration: Use abstract creative prompts to help guide your story. Creative interpretation will lead you naturally from an abstract concept to a relevant answer. 

In guided mode, the guide represents the whims of fate. They can reference the fate moves and oracles as they like, but can also decide the outcome or direct questions back to the players.

```dataview
TABLE without ID
	link(file.link, MoveName) As "Move Name",
	InlineCmd As "Inline Command",
	RollType As "Roll Type"
WHERE contains(PageType, "Move") & contains(PageCategory, "Fate") & !contains(PageType, "Index")
SORT file.name asc
```


| Previous Section | Tags | Next Section | 
| :--- | :---: | ---: |
| **[[_Legacy Moves\|Legacy Moves]]** | #Pedia/Moves/Fate | **[[GID_Clocks\|Clocks (guidelines)]]** |

<font size=-2>This work is based on Ironsworn: Starforged (found at [www.ironswornrpg.com](http://www.ironswornrpg.com)), created by Shawn Tomkin, and licensed for our use under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license  (creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).</font>
