Starforged/Chapter5 - Oracles/Planets/_SF_CH5_Planets.md, before:

---
## Source
SourceMaterial: "Ironsworn: Starforged"
SourceAuthor: "Shawn Tompkin"
SourceLink: 

## Page
aliases:
  - "Planet (SF Oracles)"
  - "Planetary Class (SF Oracles)"
PageType: Oracle
PageCategory: PlanetIndex
PageOrder: 0

## Oracle
Oracle: Planet
OracleFocus: "Planet Class"
OracleDescriptor: "This oracle provides a simple method of generating a planetary class. If this is enough information, stop there and envision the world as appropriate to its type."
---
# [[_Starforged|Starforged]] - [[_SF_CH5_Index|Oracle]]: Planets
## Oracle: Planetary Class
> [!mechanics]- | Roll > `dice: [[_SF_CH5_Planets#^table-OclPlanetaryClass]]` | Guidance
> This oracle provides a simple method of generating a planetary class. If this is enough information, stop there and envision the world as appropriate to its type. For a bit more detail, make a roll on the [[SF_CH5_Core_Descriptor-Focus#Oracle Descriptor|Descriptor/Focus Oracle]] and envision how that aspect defines the nature of the planet or a specific planetside location. ^guidance-OclPlanetaryClass

| 1d100 | Result | Description |
| :---: |:--- |:--- |
| 1 - 15 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Desert\|Desert World]] | A pitiless planet of searing heat, blowing sand, and sunbaked rock. |
| 16 - 30 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Furnace\|Furnace World]] | A planet with relentless volcanic activity, wreathed in fire and ash. |
| 31 - 35 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Grave\|Grave World]] | A once-thriving world, now a grim monument to a fallen civilization. |
| 36 - 50 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Ice\|Ice World]] | A rugged, frozen world—locked in an unending winter. |
| 51 - 65 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Jovian\|Jovian World]] | A massive planet with vast layers of dense gases surrounding a rocky core. |
| 66 - 70 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Jungle\|Jungle World]] | A humid, rain-soaked planet that keeps its secrets under a thick canopy of vegetation. |
| 71 - 75 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Ocean\|Ocean World]] | A planet completely or almost entirely covered by a boundless ocean. |
| 76 - 90 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Rocky\|Rocky World]] | A rugged planet scarred by eons of destructive asteroid impacts. |
| 91 - 92 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Shattered\|Shattered World]] | A planet sundered by cataclysmic destruction. |
| 93 - 98 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Tainted\|Tained Worled]] | A foul planet wracked by a poisonous climate and virulent growths. |
| 99 - 100 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Vital\|Vital World]] | This diverse, life-bearing planet might provide some small measure of hope. |

*306 CHAPTER 5: ORACLES*

### Planetary Class - Rollabel
| dice: 1d100 | Result |
|:---:|:--- |
| 1 - 15 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Desert\|Desert World]] |
| 16 - 30 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Furnace\|Furnace World]] |
| 31 - 35 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Grave\|Grave World]] |
| 36 - 50 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Ice\|Ice World]] |
| 51 - 65 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Jovian\|Jovian World]] |
| 66 - 70 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Jungle\|Jungle World]] |
| 71 - 75 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Ocean\|Ocean World]] |
| 76 - 90 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Rocky\|Rocky World]] |
| 91 - 92 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Shattered\|Shattered World]] |
| 93 - 98 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Tainted\|Tained Worled]] |
| 99 - 100 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Vital\|Vital World]] |
^table-OclPlanetaryClass

## Summary: Exploring Planets
The chart on the previous page provides a simple method of generating a planetary class. If this is enough information, stop there and envision the world as appropriate to its type. For a bit more detail, make a roll on the Descriptor oracle (page 298) and envision how that aspect defines the nature of the planet or a specific planetside location.

### Detailed Planet Generation
Using the planet dashboards on the following pages, you can generate details for the features of a planet if that place has a focus in your story.

Start with the tables that describe features you’d detect at a distance, such as Atmosphere, Settlements, and Observed from Space. Then, if you investigate the planet, roll on the Planetside Feature and Life tables to uncover more about the nature of that place.

If you have advance information on a planet, you’ll have a more complete picture before you travel there. In that case, roll to determine its nature as you like. If you are the guide, assemble the characteristics of a planet as needed.

### Planet Atmospheres
The atmosphere table for each planet type includes a range of results to help you envision a planet’s habitability. 
- ==None / thin==: This planet is airless, or its atmosphere is so thin as to be useless for humans. 
- ==Toxic==: This planet’s atmosphere is not compatible with human life. Exploring this place will require a sealed environment or breathing apparatus. Otherwise, survival is measured in minutes. 
- ==Corrosive==: This planet’s atmosphere is deadly to humans. As a bonus, it can damage exposed skin, materials, plastics, and metals over time. 
- ==Marginal==: It’s unhealthy to breathe this planet’s atmosphere for more than a few hours at a time. 
- ==Breathable==: This atmosphere is not perfect, but it’s good enough to sustain human life. 
- ==Ideal==: This planet’s atmosphere is ideally suited to human life.

### Envisioning Planetside Expeditions
Planets are big. These oracles help set the stage, but won’t provide the moment-to-moment details of a surface expedition. Instead, use the established nature of a planet as a springboard for envisioning terrain and encounters. Save the **Planetside Feature** table for key aspects. Roll on the **[[_SF_CH5_Core#Oracle: Descriptor|Descriptor]]** and **[[_SF_CH5_Core#Oracle: Focus|Focus]]** oracles for additional variety. Use the **[[SF_CH5_Planetside_Fortune#Oracle Planet Peril - Lifeless|Planet Peril]]** and **[[SF_CH5_Planetside_Fortune#Oracle Planet Opportunity - Lifeless|Planet Opportunity]]** oracles to help envision the nature of an unexpected event.

*307 PLANETS*

## Oracle: Planet Names (All)
> [!mechanics]- | Roll > `dice: 1d100` | Guidance
> Below is combined oracle of all planet names. Use this to have a wider variety of names irrespective of planetary class. ^guidance-OclPlanetNames-All

| 1d100 | Desert | Furnace | Grave | Ice | Jovian | Jungle | Ocean | Rocky | Shattered | Tainted | Vital |
| :---: | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 - 5 | Abalos | Ash | Anubis | Beira | Aether | Acacia | Aegir | Aphelion | Cavus | Achlys | Chiron |
| 6 - 10 | Audun | Azula | Banshee | Boreas | Arrokoth | Aster | Alon | Artemis | Chrysalis | Animus | Demeter |
| 11 - 15 | Bishop | Cinder | Barrow | Caradhras | Esen | Beryl | Clarion | Capella | Fragment | Bane | Erebos |
| 16 - 20 | Desolation | Cyrus | Cairn | Cicero | Hanish | Celadon | Darya | Cobalt | Havoc | Blight | Erembour |
| 21 - 25 | Dykuma | Draconus | Cerberus | Demetria | Magnus | Ceres | Eldoris | Crag | Keres | Carrion | Feronia |
| 26 - 30 | Fallow | Effigy | Charon | Enten | Magonia | Damu | Horizon | Dusk | Lux | Chitin | Fortuna |
| 31 - 35 | Helios | Ember | Elysia | Fissure | Mistral | Dryad | Hydra | Eos | Nemain | Datura | Gaia |
| 36 - 40 | Mirage | Flint | Keen | Frost | Nephele | Flora | Kai | Hecate | Praxis | Dreck | Harbinger |
| 41 - 45 | Morricone | Hades | Kur | Gelida | Nimbus | Iridum | Larimar | Imbrium | Riven | Erra | Haven |
| 46 - 50 | Nux | Hera | Lament | Jotunn | Nuada | Iris | Lotan | Latona | Schism | Febris | Hope |
| 51 - 55 | Ordos | Ignis | Mantus | Kanna | Nubium | Kishar | Mira | Losna | Shell | Malacia | Morpheus |
| 56 - 60 | Petra | Inferno | Morrigan | Karn | Serein | Penumbra | Navini | Orpheus | Slag | Miasma | Nemus |
| 61 - 65 | Pyla | Ishum | Mourn | Kheimon | Stratus | Roris | Nerida | Ory | Sliver | Morbus | Sapphire |
| 66 - 70 | Sabulo | Kresnik | Necropolis | Moroz | Taranis | Sylva | Oceanus | Quietus | Sunder | Pathosis | Serenity |
| 71 - 75 | Saffron | Nemesis | Orcus | Nix | Tempest | Tangle | Pelagic | Selene | Torment | Pestis | Sif |
| 76 - 80 | Sirocco | Obsidian | Osiris | Olwen | Tenzin | Thorn | Proteus | Silas | Vestige | Scourge | Silva |
| 81 - 85 | Sulis | Scorch | Requiem | Osolok | Tyr | Venom | Russalka | Silex | Vigrid | Telium | Sirona |
| 86 - 90 | Torrid | Tana | Stygia | Taiga | Veil | Verdure | Siren | Slate | Vortex | Timoris | Solstice |
| 91 - 95 | Umber | Vesta | Tartarus | Thule | Velum | Veris | Thalassa | Themis | Wrath | Verus | Vale |
| 96 - 100 | Vermillion | Vesuvius | Thrace | Varnholme | Zephyr | Viridian | Triton | Umbra | Zix | Xanthous | Valinor |
^table-OclPlanetNames-All

## Tags
| Previous Section | Tags | Next Section | 
| :--- | :---: | ---: |
| **[[_SF_CH5_Space-Encounters\|Space Encounters (SF Oracles)]]** | #Starforged/Oracles/Planet | **[[_SF_CH5_Settlements\|Settlements (SF Oracles)]]** |

<font size=-2>This work is based on Ironsworn: Starforged (found at [www.ironswornrpg.com](http://www.ironswornrpg.com)), created by Shawn Tomkin, and licensed for our use under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license  (creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).</font>

Commit message:

Version 0.4.1.3
Proof read of Starforged changes, brought Oracle index pages inline with Sundered Isles

Starforged/Chapter5 - Oracles/Planets/_SF_CH5_Planets.md, after:

---
## Source
SourceMaterial: "Ironsworn: Starforged"
SourceAuthor: "Shawn Tompkin"
SourceLink: 

## Page
aliases:
  - "Planet (SF Oracles)"
  - "Planetary Class (SF Oracles)"
PageType: Oracle
PageCategory: PlanetIndex
PageOrder: 0

## Oracle
Oracle: Planet
OracleFocus: "Planet Class"
OracleDescriptor: "This oracle provides a simple method of generating a planetary class. If this is enough information, stop there and envision the world as appropriate to its type."
---
# [[_Starforged|Starforged]] - [[_SF_CH5_Index|Oracle]]: Planets
## Oracle: Planetary Class
> [!mechanics]- | Roll > `dice: [[_SF_CH5_Planets#^table-OclPlanetaryClass]]` ▶Descriptor: `dice: [[SF_CH5_Core_Descriptor-Focus#^table-OclDescriptior]]` | Guidance
> This oracle provides a simple method of generating a planetary class. If this is enough information, stop there and envision the world as appropriate to its type. For a bit more detail, make a roll on the [[SF_CH5_Core_Descriptor-Focus#Oracle Descriptor|Descriptor/Focus Oracle]] and envision how that aspect defines the nature of the planet or a specific planetside location. ^guidance-OclPlanetaryClass

| 1d100 | Result | Description |
| :---: |:--- |:--- |
| 1 - 15 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Desert\|Desert World]] | A pitiless planet of searing heat, blowing sand, and sunbaked rock. |
| 16 - 30 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Furnace\|Furnace World]] | A planet with relentless volcanic activity, wreathed in fire and ash. |
| 31 - 35 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Grave\|Grave World]] | A once-thriving world, now a grim monument to a fallen civilization. |
| 36 - 50 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Ice\|Ice World]] | A rugged, frozen world—locked in an unending winter. |
| 51 - 65 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Jovian\|Jovian World]] | A massive planet with vast layers of dense gases surrounding a rocky core. |
| 66 - 70 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Jungle\|Jungle World]] | A humid, rain-soaked planet that keeps its secrets under a thick canopy of vegetation. |
| 71 - 75 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Ocean\|Ocean World]] | A planet completely or almost entirely covered by a boundless ocean. |
| 76 - 90 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Rocky\|Rocky World]] | A rugged planet scarred by eons of destructive asteroid impacts. |
| 91 - 92 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Shattered\|Shattered World]] | A planet sundered by cataclysmic destruction. |
| 93 - 98 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Tainted\|Tained Worled]] | A foul planet wracked by a poisonous climate and virulent growths. |
| 99 - 100 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Vital\|Vital World]] | This diverse, life-bearing planet might provide some small measure of hope. |

*306 CHAPTER 5: ORACLES*

### Planetary Class - Rollabel
| dice: 1d100 | Result |
|:---:|:--- |
| 1 - 15 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Desert\|Desert World]] |
| 16 - 30 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Furnace\|Furnace World]] |
| 31 - 35 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Grave\|Grave World]] |
| 36 - 50 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Ice\|Ice World]] |
| 51 - 65 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Jovian\|Jovian World]] |
| 66 - 70 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Jungle\|Jungle World]] |
| 71 - 75 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Ocean\|Ocean World]] |
| 76 - 90 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Rocky\|Rocky World]] |
| 91 - 92 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Shattered\|Shattered World]] |
| 93 - 98 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Tainted\|Tained Worled]] |
| 99 - 100 | [[SF_CH5_Planet-Vital\|Vital World]] |
^table-OclPlanetaryClass

## Summary: Exploring Planets
The chart on the previous page provides a simple method of generating a planetary class. If this is enough information, stop there and envision the world as appropriate to its type. For a bit more detail, make a roll on the [[SF_CH5_Core_Descriptor-Focus#Oracle Descriptor|Descriptor]] oracle (page 298) and envision how that aspect defines the nature of the planet or a specific planetside location.

### Detailed Planet Generation
Using the planet dashboards on the following pages, you can generate details for the features of a planet if that place has a focus in your story.

Start with the tables that describe features you’d detect at a distance, such as **Atmosphere, Settlements, and Observed from Space.** Then, if you investigate the planet, roll on the **Planetside Feature** and **Life** tables to uncover more about the nature of that place.

If you have advance information on a planet, you’ll have a more complete picture before you travel there. In that case, roll to determine its nature as you like. If you are the guide, assemble the characteristics of a planet as needed.

### Planet Atmospheres
The atmosphere table for each planet type includes a range of results to help you envision a planet’s habitability. 
- ==None / thin==: This planet is airless, or its atmosphere is so thin as to be useless for humans. 
- ==Toxic==: This planet’s atmosphere is not compatible with human life. Exploring this place will require a sealed environment or breathing apparatus. Otherwise, survival is measured in minutes. 
- ==Corrosive==: This planet’s atmosphere is deadly to humans. As a bonus, it can damage exposed skin, materials, plastics, and metals over time. 
- ==Marginal==: It’s unhealthy to breathe this planet’s atmosphere for more than a few hours at a time. 
- ==Breathable==: This atmosphere is not perfect, but it’s good enough to sustain human life. 
- ==Ideal==: This planet’s atmosphere is ideally suited to human life.

### Envisioning Planetside Expeditions
Planets are big. These oracles help set the stage, but won’t provide the moment-to-moment details of a surface expedition. Instead, use the established nature of a planet as a springboard for envisioning terrain and encounters. Save the **Planetside Feature** table for key aspects. Roll on the **[[_SF_CH5_Core#Oracle: Descriptor|Descriptor]]** and **[[_SF_CH5_Core#Oracle: Focus|Focus]]** oracles for additional variety. Use the **[[SF_CH5_Planetside_Fortune#Oracle Planet Peril - Lifeless|Planet Peril]]** and **[[SF_CH5_Planetside_Fortune#Oracle Planet Opportunity - Lifeless|Planet Opportunity]]** oracles to help envision the nature of an unexpected event.

*307 PLANETS*

## Oracle: Planet Names (All)
> [!mechanics]- | Roll > `dice: 1d100` | Guidance
> Below is combined oracle of all planet names. Use this to have a wider variety of names irrespective of planetary class. ^guidance-OclPlanetNames-All

| 1d100 | Desert | Furnace | Grave | Ice | Jovian | Jungle | Ocean | Rocky | Shattered | Tainted | Vital |
| :---: | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 1 - 5 | Abalos | Ash | Anubis | Beira | Aether | Acacia | Aegir | Aphelion | Cavus | Achlys | Chiron |
| 6 - 10 | Audun | Azula | Banshee | Boreas | Arrokoth | Aster | Alon | Artemis | Chrysalis | Animus | Demeter |
| 11 - 15 | Bishop | Cinder | Barrow | Caradhras | Esen | Beryl | Clarion | Capella | Fragment | Bane | Erebos |
| 16 - 20 | Desolation | Cyrus | Cairn | Cicero | Hanish | Celadon | Darya | Cobalt | Havoc | Blight | Erembour |
| 21 - 25 | Dykuma | Draconus | Cerberus | Demetria | Magnus | Ceres | Eldoris | Crag | Keres | Carrion | Feronia |
| 26 - 30 | Fallow | Effigy | Charon | Enten | Magonia | Damu | Horizon | Dusk | Lux | Chitin | Fortuna |
| 31 - 35 | Helios | Ember | Elysia | Fissure | Mistral | Dryad | Hydra | Eos | Nemain | Datura | Gaia |
| 36 - 40 | Mirage | Flint | Keen | Frost | Nephele | Flora | Kai | Hecate | Praxis | Dreck | Harbinger |
| 41 - 45 | Morricone | Hades | Kur | Gelida | Nimbus | Iridum | Larimar | Imbrium | Riven | Erra | Haven |
| 46 - 50 | Nux | Hera | Lament | Jotunn | Nuada | Iris | Lotan | Latona | Schism | Febris | Hope |
| 51 - 55 | Ordos | Ignis | Mantus | Kanna | Nubium | Kishar | Mira | Losna | Shell | Malacia | Morpheus |
| 56 - 60 | Petra | Inferno | Morrigan | Karn | Serein | Penumbra | Navini | Orpheus | Slag | Miasma | Nemus |
| 61 - 65 | Pyla | Ishum | Mourn | Kheimon | Stratus | Roris | Nerida | Ory | Sliver | Morbus | Sapphire |
| 66 - 70 | Sabulo | Kresnik | Necropolis | Moroz | Taranis | Sylva | Oceanus | Quietus | Sunder | Pathosis | Serenity |
| 71 - 75 | Saffron | Nemesis | Orcus | Nix | Tempest | Tangle | Pelagic | Selene | Torment | Pestis | Sif |
| 76 - 80 | Sirocco | Obsidian | Osiris | Olwen | Tenzin | Thorn | Proteus | Silas | Vestige | Scourge | Silva |
| 81 - 85 | Sulis | Scorch | Requiem | Osolok | Tyr | Venom | Russalka | Silex | Vigrid | Telium | Sirona |
| 86 - 90 | Torrid | Tana | Stygia | Taiga | Veil | Verdure | Siren | Slate | Vortex | Timoris | Solstice |
| 91 - 95 | Umber | Vesta | Tartarus | Thule | Velum | Veris | Thalassa | Themis | Wrath | Verus | Vale |
| 96 - 100 | Vermillion | Vesuvius | Thrace | Varnholme | Zephyr | Viridian | Triton | Umbra | Zix | Xanthous | Valinor |
^table-OclPlanetNames-All

## All Planet Oracles
_Below are all Planet oracles across all source material._
```dataview
TABLE without ID
	link(file.link, OracleFocus) As "Oracle Focus",
	SourceMaterial As "Source Material",
	OracleDescriptor As "Description"
WHERE contains(PageType, "Oracle") & contains(PageCategory, "Planet") & !contains(PageCategory, "Index") & !contains(file.path, "Template")
SORT SourceMaterial, asc AND PageOrder, asc
```

## Tags
| Previous Section | Tags | Next Section | 
| :--- | :---: | ---: |
| **[[_SF_CH5_Space-Encounters\|Space Encounters (SF Oracles)]]** | #Starforged/Oracles/Planet - #TheGuide | **[[_SF_CH5_Settlements\|Settlements (SF Oracles)]]** |

<font size=-2>This work is based on Ironsworn: Starforged (found at [www.ironswornrpg.com](http://www.ironswornrpg.com)), created by Shawn Tomkin, and licensed for our use under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International license  (creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).</font>
